Enrolment How do I get help with enrolling? Enrolment guides for new and continuing students are available on the Enrolment page. If you need further assistance, you can contact us (see contact methods across). How do I enrol after the last day to add courses? In special circumstances, you may request permission to add classes after the deadline. Follow the instructions under "Enrolling in classes after the last day to add" on the Change or cancel your enrolment page. Can I receive assistance for enrolment variation? You can download and submit a form to RMIT for approval for Enrolment variation. I am an international student and I need to extend my Confirmation of Enrolment You can find out about your CoE and apply for a new CoE. How do I create my class timetable? You can create and view your class timetable via myTimetable. How do I study part-time (reduce my study load)? Domestic students can study 12-48 credit points per semester. You can change your study load simply by enrolling in fewer or more courses in Enrolment Online. International students must study 48 credit points per semester unless they experience compassionate and compelling circumstances. To find out more and apply to reduce your study load, see the Enrolment load requirements for student visa holders page. Can I study more than four courses in a semester? If you haven't failed any courses within your last two semesters or have a GPA of 2.5 or higher, we may be able to approve you to overload one additional course in a given semester. If you don't meet these requirements but would still like to overload, your request may also be considered based on your circumstances. How do I take a leave of absence? Follow the instructions to apply for a leave of absence. How do I enrol in a course that I have not met the pre-requisite for? You may apply for a requisite waiver. I would like to return early from leave of absence, how can I do so? Our teams can assist you with changing your return date. I would like to return early from deferment, how can I do so? Our teams can assist you with changing your return date.