Program and course information Where can I find general information about a program? Information about a program can be found on the program page, via the program guide, or by contacting Study@RMIT. Does my program have prerequisites or assumed knowledge? If your program requires assumed knowledge or prerequisites for admission, it will be detailed under Admissions on the program page. When and where is my program offered? You can find out about upcoming intakes, campuses and study modes in the information summary at the top of the program page, or on the program plan page (found under "Choose program structure"). Where can I find the application dates for my program? If your program is open for applications, or will be soon, you will be able to find application dates on the Apply page, which can be found via the top-right section of the program page. You can find out about upcoming program intakes in the information summary at the top of the program page. What outcomes can I expect from my program? Program outcomes, including career options and further study, can be found on the program page. For career information, including potential job titles and/or industries and organisations can be found under Career, and further study opportunities, if available, can be found under Pathways. How do I find out if this program is available for international students on study visas? To find out if a program is available for international students intending to obtain a study visa, select "Student type: International" in the information summary at the top of the program page. Some programs are available for international students through online study only, which do not qualify for an Australian study visa. If this is the case, it will be noted on the program page. How long is this program? Information about program duration can be found in the information summary at the top of the program page. How can I find out about a program's particular requirements? Some programs may include: physical requirements requirements for work-integrated learning (WIL) security checks minimum level of English language proficiency compulsory online elements and/or work-based training placements other community-based learning, and collaborative research training arrangements. If a program does include particular requirements, they will be noted under the Admissions section of a program page, including Inherent requirements and Additional information. Where can I find information about credit, qualifications or advanced standing? Opportunities for credit, advanced standing and recognition of prior learning can be found under Pathways on the program page, or within RMIT's Admission and Credit Policy. If you are undertaking a single course which provides credit to a particular program or offering, you can find out about this under Pathways on the program page. What is the CRICOS code for my program? If a program has been CRICOS-approved, the CRICOS code will be noted on the program page and the program plan. I have more questions about a program. Who can I contact? If a key contact is available for a program, it will be noted under Key contacts in the Details section of the program page. If a key contact is not available for a program, reach out to Study@RMIT for more information. Application process What is the application process? The process for applying to a course at RMIT varies by level of study, and if you're a local or international student. Find out how to apply to RMIT as a local student Find out how to apply to RMIT as an international student Ready to apply? RMIT’s standard closing date for receiving applications vary by level of study each intake. Local student application dates International student application deadlines Please note, some courses have their own closing date and enrolments are subject to places and availability. As such, applicants are encouraged to apply as soon as possible. International students are also strongly advised to apply by the dates recommended for their country/region. These maybe earlier than the closing date for your course and are based on anticipated visa processing times for each country. If you require a student visa, you will also need to allow additional time to apply for your visa. For further information, contact us. Where can I learn about student and ATAR profiles? Find out about student and ATAR profiles on the Admissions transparency page. How are Australian citizens or permanent residents with overseas qualifications are assessed for admission? This information can be found under Admissions on a program page. Where can I find information about RMIT's Indigenous applicant admission scheme? Learn about RMIT's Indigenous Access Program. Where can I find information about RMIT's equity access schemes? Find out about RMIT's Equity access schemes. What other access schemes are available? Learn about RMIT's Elite and Emerging Athlete programs. What is VTAC? The Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC) is a hub for tertiary course applications in Victoria. VTAC receives, processes and forwards course applications to universities, TAFEs and independent tertiary colleges in Victoria (and a few outside Victoria). VTAC does not decide who gets into a course. All decisions about which applicants are offered a place are made by institutions. VTAC also processes special consideration claims through the SEAS application and some scholarship applications. VTAC’s other role is calculating the ATAR for Year 12 students. Enrolment How do I accept, change, withdraw or defer my offer? If you're a local student applying through VTAC, you can manage your preferences and offer through the VTAC website. Alternatively, find out how to defer your place before you start. If you're an international student, find out how to accept your offer, or how to defer your offer. How can I apply for a leave of absence? Learn how to apply for a leave of absence. Please note, international students can only apply for a leave of absence for compassionate or compelling reasons. Didn't get an offer? If you are dissatisfied with the outcome of your application for admission, you may seek a formal review of a selection decision in accordance with RMIT’s Selection Procedure. Fees What are the fees for my course? Your fees depend on your level of study and course. Learn more about requirements and support for local students, including tuition fees, scholarships, additional fees and expenses, and HECS-HELP and other Commonwealth assistance loans. Learn more about tuition fees, scholarships and support for international students. When do I pay my fees? Tuition fees and the Student Services and Amenities Fee are payable after the census date. Find out census dates for: Higher education Vocational education Associate degrees Will there be additional charges throughout my study? Other fees and expenses throughout your study may include the SSAF and materials and admin fees. What is the Student Services and Amenities Fee (SSAF)? Like all Australian universities, RMIT charges a Student Services and Amenities Fee (SSAF) to improve your university experience. To find out what activities and services the SSAF funds, visit the SSAF page. Can I get a refund on my fees? To learn about refunds and find out if you're eligible for one, visit our Refunds page. What do I need to know about HELP and VET loans? Find out if you're eligible for a HELP or VET loan and how to apply for one, and ensure you know about your responsibilities via the HELP Loans and VET Student Loans page. What scholarship opportunities are available? Visit the Scholarships page to find out about scholarships and grants that you may be eligible for. Who can access funding through the Skills First Program? To access funding through the Victorian Skills First Program individuals must be looking to gain new skills or upgrade their existing qualifications. RMIT encourages individuals with a disability to access Vocational Education training subsidised through the Victorian government Skills First Program. The Skills First program funding is dependent on a range of eligibility criteria. If an individual is eligible, the government will contribute to the costs of the training. Student support and activities What services does Student Connect offer? Student Connect allows you to submit questions or requests about: admissions and enrolment course, subject and timetable advice updating your details student or concession cards fees and finance exams, results and graduation support for study, wellbeing and housing work and study opportunities student exchange library and study support, and more. Where can I find my course materials and learning resources? All of your course materials and learning resources should be available via your Canvas login. Information about other online learning resources can be found in the Learning Lab and the Library. Where can I find my timetable? Find out how to view and create your timetable on our Class timetables page. How do I access IT systems for online activities? Find out about IT services for students. How can I participate in student politics, or have my say about university decisions, policies and services? To have your say about how the university is run and other important elements of life at RMIT, join the Student Voice Network. If you would like to participate in student representative bodies, find out about the RMIT University Student Union (RUSU). How can I access personal, cultural or English language support? Find out about the services available for wellbeing, community or practical support on our Student support page. Who can I talk to about student assistance or advocacy? Make sure you know your student rights. The RMIT Student Union (RUSU) employs advocates who can provide you with free advice and assistance for appeals. If you wish to use this service, you are encouraged to make an appointment as soon as possible. Where can I find out about youth and student allowances? To find out about student finances, including Centrelink payments, student loans and financial assistance, visit the Finances page. Where can I find out about student orientation and induction? Find out about student orientation and program induction on the Your orientation page. Student obligations What are the expected standards of behaviour as an RMIT student? Find out what is expected of all RMIT students, and learn what constitutes high, general and academic misconduct on the Conduct page. What are the disciplinary procedures for student misconduct? Learn about the penalty and appeal process for allegations of student misconduct on the Student Conduct Regulations page. Information for international students All information for international students, including health cover requirements, cost of living, accommodation and visa information, can be found on the International student site. Complaints To learn more about: how to complain the complaint resolution process the internal and external appeals processes guidance on how to participate in the processes, and sources of assistance and advocacy Visit the Student and student-related complaints page. Access to current academic policies You can access a full glossary of current university policies on the Policies site.