BP355 BP356 Cyber Security and CS Professional Structure.txt Bachelor of Cyber Security Bachelor of Cyber Security (Professional) Code BP355 Duration: Full-time 3 years or Part-time equivalent Campus: City Code BP356 (Prof.) Duration: Full-time 4 years or Part-time equivalent Campus: City Develop the knowledge and skills to succeed in your chosen career path. Overview The field of cyber security is experiencing rapid growth due to the increasing reliance on digital technologies and the escalating frequency and sophistication of cyber threats. Demand for cyber security professionals is strong, growing 30% annually over the past 5 years. RMIT's Bachelor of Cyber Security program aims to bridge the gap between the demand and supply of skilled cyber security professionals in the areas of: security by design, secure software systems, privacy technologies, cyber risk and compliance, ethical hacking, and threat analysis and incident response. By offering a comprehensive curriculum that covers a wide range of cyber security disciplines, the program equips you with the specialised knowledge and skills required to tackle the evolving threat landscape and ensures industry relevance by incorporating current best practices, emerging technologies, and real-world case studies. It prepares students to enter the workforce with the necessary skills to address cyber security challenges effectively. The inclusion of industry experience components allows students to apply their knowledge in practical settings, enhancing their job-readiness and employability. Industry connections The Bachelor of Cyber security includes several work integrated learning (WIL) subjects. You will engage in activities that integrate theoretical learning with practical application in cyber security area. Industry is heavily integrated throughout the program. Your subjects are designed to prepare you for a professional environment, with learning shaped by industry needs and expectations. Career-focused education Recognising the multi-disciplinary nature of cyber security, this program provides a holistic approach to skill development. It teaches the principles of systems security, emphasising the security properties and implications of software and information technologies, taking human factors into consideration. It covers various aspects, including: online privacy network and software security cloud security digital forensics incident response human factors in security governance. This broad foundation of knowledge enables students to understand the interconnectedness of different cyber security domains and develop a comprehensive skill set. To broaden your skills as a cyber security graduate, this program offers a suite of minors, including: Network Infrastructure, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Creative Computing, Data Science, Enterprise Systems Development, Blockchain Enabled Business, and CISCO Networking. Upon graduation from the program, you will be able to pursue roles such as cyber security risk and threat analyst, cyber-attack and incidents analyst, penetration tester, cyber security advisor, cyber security consultant, information security auditor, digital forensics analyst, cyber security system developer or programmer, security architect, security operations manager, cyber security operations support analyst, cyber security compliance and governance consultant, and cyber security lead. Year 1, 2 and 3 In your first year, you will undertake multiple core subjects and use the Bootcamp2Studio signature model to learn specialised ICT knowledge. In second year, you will delve deeper with studies in computer forensics, penetration testing, cloud security and secure electronic commerce, software engineering fundamentals and more. For third year, you will undertake a capstone subject in strategic cyber security and graduate folio development. Year 4 (Professional only) Your fourth year is centred around your yearlong industry internship. You will be equipped with professional experience relevant to your study and career goals, as well as essential and highly transferrable skills in teamwork, communication, project management and execution, customer-focused solution development, organisational culture, and more.